Modelling and simulation of a DC servo motor.
So first what is it easy servo motor and you see several motor is as simple a DC motor.
Plus what we call several mechanism servo mechanism is used to control the output of the DC motor
from your electric class.
We have here what we call state or the state or produces CONSTANT MAGNETIC FIELD And we have here a
router which is a coil.
Once the current flows inside this coil an electromagnetic force is induced according to law and slow
and the coil starts to rotate.
Very simple.
So what is the servo mechanism.
First we have years of two circuits of the DC motor.
We have what we call our metro circuit which is input voltage and we have resistance and then inductor
we have Becky MF and this is the shaft of the motor which is connected to another shaft towards output.
There may be for example gears ends output shaft has and there she is a and then been coefficient of
B so we have a Ludes owns a shaft legs and their sheer force and to them being force the torque produces
on the shaft is proportional to the current flows inside the circuit and we have here is a field circuit.
You are not interested into the field circuit because we will use our motor circuit as a control process
in order to control the output of this DC motor.
Based on Zane wood which means what is the voltage you need to supply it to this DC motor in order to
have certain high speed or a certain position.
We use the servo mechanism so we have here our DC motor.
This is the shaft of the DC motor and we have here two gears.
There is odd wood shaft.
We put the sensor on this output shaft like a potential meter in order to sense for example the speed
of this shaft.
The potential meter is converting is this a speed signal into a voltage signal and we feedback this
voltage signal in amplifier.
We have here also an input from any source.
The difference between the output and the input voltages is amplified and this is error and is feeding
back to the control unit of the DC motor which is placed on this signal correct is on but of that you
see motor based on the application or is a desired output.
So we have three main components here we have the control unit all the work is done inside this control
unit we have output sensor which is for example potential meter and we have a feedback signal so let's
see the most medical modelling of the DC motor by applying care should slow on the circuit.
We have the input voltage or the reference input here V equals to r plus l i dot plus the back E and
F E and the back IMF is proportional to the speed of the shaft so equals to a constant we call K.B.
times see to that that work is proportional to the current flows inside the circuit so torque equals
to Katy Times ie and from the free body diagram of the output shaft we have to work equals 2 and their
shallow GC A lot plus then being lowered b c the load by taking a less transformation of these four
equations we have V S equals two ie times are plus S L plus Becky M F Becky M F equals two Coniston
key B times C to that and actually I've kept C that up because I won't are going to be a velocity in
my position you can replace C a lot by Omega for example if you'll get confused we have to work equals
to Katy Times I and we have to work equals to see the other times J as plus B so the input is this voltage
and the output is a seat a lot as an assignment I want you to draw the block diagram of these equations
the input is V and the output is see the dot and you will find the answer and as domain modelling of
the DC motor
so how to model this DC motor using Samuel link I have arranged the motor equations to be like this
I thought equals to one over l times V minus I R minus E so I will start by signal I thought I will
integrate the signal first time in order to have I and I will feed I.
Times are back and this signal would be minus the Becky M F plus the input voltage to producers I idled
by producing GUI you can multiplied by Katie in order to have the talk and from the to work you can
have see the double lot and from sea level a lot you can have see the lot and feedback see the dot in
order to have the back IMF is very simple and when you look at the symbol link you will understand more
so let's move to the symbol link I've created a new model and the semi link I have m file which contains
the different values for the different variables we have years of resistance we have inductor we have
the kind of son Katie K.B. and we have them in coefficients and in their shows the shaft
so from commonly use block I will add the scoop gain and some point
and from continuous I will end and integrate integrator and from sources I will add a constant for example
let's arrange these blocks
leads is a scoop
so by looking at the equation we have here is a signal I dot
this is the signal light dot so I will type I thought
by integrating I dot for the first time we will have I so the signal here is the current I multiplied
by the resistance I would flip this block
and this is r
from the second equation if we multiplied ie by Coniston Kate we will produce a talk.
So I will copy this block and flip
this is Katie
ends up with signal here is tea or is at work from the third equation.
The talk signal minus B C the dot plus one over J produces a seat to the bill but so this is a summation
point
I would keep it like that and we have to work in plus and see to love a lot of minus
czar but of the signal would be multiplied by one over J So I would call this block here and this is
one over J
to produce C to the ballot.
So if I integrated the signal of C that I will look for the first time it will produce a seat about
that's fit to view.
This is here
theta or up a lot.
And the integration is a citadel which is my output so I will use a scoop in order to please output.
This is theta dot
and ppl looking at the third equation say the dot is multiplied by B.
So I will copy this block and this is B
and talk minus p c to dot times 1 over J produces a C to double dot
again from the last equation
C to that is multiplied by so I will Kobe's this block just right click and drag it
and I will do the wearing.
This is P.
And I will add the submission point.
So I will copy this.
This for example here they'll make a rectangle and I will add three signs plus sign for the input minus
signs for I or a minus sign for Peck IMF.
Sorry this is K.B. so seat of the times KP produces the back Bank IMF
is fit to view I would enlarge this.
This is the same signal maybe a Coniston signal of like 5
and this is a Bank IMF and this is all I or
ends odd would signal of this summing point is multiplied by
one over L
to produce.
I dot
now.
We have completed our model so I can earn my model now it will take some time
you can track the simulation time from here so we are at that time equals to 5.5.
Now we are done.
I can double click here on the scoop in order to seize the output of the system
with scale.
So this is output velocity was time.
Thank you guys for watching and I will see you in the next video.